# Created app - ng new Angular_Routing
 Added these components -  ng g c about , ng g c contact , ng g c error , ng g c home








Routing means switching between pages in an Angular app without reloading the website.
So routing basically means:
URL → Angular loads the matching component.










# In App.html - 

<router-outlet> is the placeholder where Angular loads the component based on the current route.
```
Navbar (always visible)
-----------------------
<router-outlet>   ← page content changes here
-----------------------
Footer (always visible)
```

Angular keeps the layout but swaps components inside the router-outlet.
App Component (Root)
```
 ├── Header
 ├── Router Outlet
 │      ├── HomeComponent
 │      ├── AboutComponent
 │      └── ContactComponent
 └── Footer
```
Basically, the header and footer layout are written in app.html and styled in its CSS, while the **main page content is placed in different components that get displayed inside the <router-outlet> depending on the route.







## RouterOutlet
RouterOutlet is a directive that acts as a placeholder where Angular dynamically loads routed components.

> Why routerLink better than href -

| routerLink                 | href                      |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| Angular routing navigation | Normal browser navigation |
| Page **does not reload**   | Page **reloads**          |
| Recommended in Angular     | Not recommended for SPA   |

So - 
```
<a routerLink="/home">Home</a>
<a routerLink="/about">About</a>
<a routerLink="/contact">Contact</a>
```
When clicked:
> Angular changes the component
> Page does NOT reload



# App.routes.ts - 

app.routes.ts is used to map URLs to components. Here, routes represent the URLs of the application. Each route specifies which component should be displayed when a particular URL is accessed.

The component class (like HomeComponent) must be imported from the component’s .ts file because Angular routing works with component classes, not selectors. Selectors are used when we manually include one component inside another component’s template.

In routing, Angular dynamically creates an instance of the specified component class and injects its template into the <router-outlet> present in app.html.


# Wildcard Route - 

A wildcard route is used to catch all invalid or unknown URLs that are not defined in the routing configuration.
It usually shows a 404 or error page.
```
localhost:4200/randompage
Angular does not know this route.
{ path: '**', component: ErrorComponent }
```
/home   → HomeComponent
/about  → AboutComponent
/random → ErrorComponent (caught by wildcard)

# redirectTo
redirectTo is used to automatically redirect one route to another route.
```
{ path: '', redirectTo: 'home', pathMatch: 'full' }
```
Meaning:
If the user opens:
localhost:4200
Angular automatically redirects to:
localhost:4200/home


```
User clicks link
       ↓
routerLink changes URL
       ↓
Angular checks routes in app.routes.ts
       ↓
Matching component found
       ↓
Component loads inside <router-outlet>
```





# Important - 
Replace this - 
```
import { Component, signal } from '@angular/core';
import { RouterOutlet } from '@angular/router';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  imports: [RouterOutlet],
  templateUrl: './app.html',
  styleUrl: './app.css'
})
export class App {
  protected readonly title = signal('Angular_Routing');
}
```


with this - 
```
import { Component, signal } from '@angular/core';
import { RouterOutlet, RouterLink } from '@angular/router';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  imports: [RouterOutlet, RouterLink],
  templateUrl: './app.html',
  styleUrl: './app.css'
})
export class App {
  protected readonly title = signal('Angular_Routing');
}
```

Why this happens
In modern Angular (v17+ and your v21), components generated by Angular CLI are standalone by default.
In Angular standalone components, directives must be imported manually.

So:

Directive	    Needed For
RouterOutlet	<router-outlet>
RouterLink	    <a routerLink="">




## routerLink is a directive.
A directive is a small Angular feature that adds behavior to HTML.


## Why Angular needed it imported
In Standalone Angular components, Angular does not automatically load directives.





# What is NgModule?
An NgModule is like a container or box that holds components and their dependencies.



Standalone components work independently and import their own dependencies, while NgModules are containers that group components and provide shared dependencies.

In modern Angular projects created with Angular CLI (v17+ and your v21), components are standalone by default.

Summary - 
Standalone component = a component that works independently without needing an NgModule.



## routerLinkActive
routerLinkActive automatically adds a CSS class to the link when its route is active, helping indicate the current page in the navigation.

Process to configure - 
Import in app.ts file.

```
    <li><a routerLink="/home" routerLinkActive="active">Home</a></li>
    <li><a routerLink="/about"routerLinkActive="active">About</a></li>
    <li><a routerLink="/contact" routerLinkActive="active">Contact</a></li>
```
Now we have to create class with active name in app.css
```
.active{
    color: brown;
}
```




1️⃣ styles.css (Global Styles)

styles.css applies to the entire Angular application.

Any style written here affects all components.
```
Example:

/* styles.css */
h1 {
  color: red;
}

Result:

Home component → red h1
About component → red h1
Contact component → red h1
```
So it is global styling.

2️⃣ app.css (Component Styles)

app.css belongs only to AppComponent.

It affects only the template of app.html.
```
Example:

/* app.css */
h1 {
  color: blue;
}

Result:

h1 inside app.html → blue
h1 inside home.html → NOT affected
```



# AngularRouting

This project was generated using [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 21.0.1.

## Development server

To start a local development server, run:

```bash
ng serve
```

Once the server is running, open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload whenever you modify any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Angular CLI includes powerful code scaffolding tools. To generate a new component, run:

```bash
ng generate component component-name
```

For a complete list of available schematics (such as `components`, `directives`, or `pipes`), run:

```bash
ng generate --help
```

## Building

To build the project run:

```bash
ng build
```

This will compile your project and store the build artifacts in the `dist/` directory. By default, the production build optimizes your application for performance and speed.

## Running unit tests

To execute unit tests with the [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) test runner, use the following command:

```bash
ng test
```

## Running end-to-end tests

For end-to-end (e2e) testing, run:

```bash
ng e2e
```

Angular CLI does not come with an end-to-end testing framework by default. You can choose one that suits your needs.

## Additional Resources

For more information on using the Angular CLI, including detailed command references, visit the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.dev/tools/cli) page.
